# Simon Game Using JS

## Table of contents

- [Simon Game Using JS](#simon-game-using-js)
  - [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Links](#links)
  - [My process](#my-process)
  - [Built with](#built-with)
  - [What I learned](#what-i-learned)
  - [Continued development](#continued-development)
  - [Author](#author)
  - [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgments)


## Overview
This is a Simon Game in which there are 4 coloured tiles by which a pattern is given and player has to select the given pattern. With increase of each Level the length of pattern increases. The game is lost on wrong input by player

## Links
- [Play The game here--]()

## My process
- Firstly I made the basic structure using HTML in **index.html** file.
- Then I designed the page with CSS in **style.css** file.
- After that I made the rest functionalities of the game using Javascript in **index.js** file. This Process involved below steps(steps are also marked in index.js file):
- **Step1:** Made a function named *nextSequence()* which generated random color and performed the given set of instruction on being for each level.
- **Step2:** Then I added animation and sound to be played on the tile which is randomly choosen within the *nextsequence* function.
- **Step3:** *This is the second most tricky part*. It involved adding eventlistener which gives the information about the input of user.
- **Step4:** It involved adding a **start()** function which sets all the values and conditions and starts the *level1* of the game.
- **Step5:** *This is the most tricky part*.It involved storing *input of user* and comparing it with *pattern* generated by *newSequence function* and proceeding the game as per rules of the game.
- Also made various functions for different tasks like *playSound(),gameLost(),start(),etc.*
- Game Project got completed.

## Built with
- Semantic HTML5 markup
- CSS custom properties
- Flexbox
- CSS Grid
- Javscript
  
## What I learned
- With this project, I got a deeper understanding of many concepts of javascript.
- Using jquery to animate-- **code:***$("."+randomChosenColor).fadeOut(100).fadeIn(100).fadeOut(100).fadeIn(100);*
- Understood the working of eventListerners and their callback functions
- used *JSON.stringify(userInput)===JSON.stringify(gamepattern)* to compare arrays in javascript. This method converts *arrays into JSON string* and then compares them.
- Learned the usage of **setTimeout** function and its callback. **code:***setTimeout(nextSequence(),2000);*
- Gained more knowledge on using the *click* and *keypress* event
- More practice on DOM manipulation.
- Build the major logic of game on my own which boosted my understanding of javascript
  **code:**
   *//getting user input color in userinput array
    userInput.push(userChosenColor);
    i++;

     //comparing each click correct or not --true for incorrect click
     if(userInput[i-1]!=gamepattern[i-1])
     {
       gameLost();
     }
    //comparing both arrays for equality i.e. final answer correct or not
    if(JSON.stringify(userInput)===JSON.stringify(gamepattern))
    {
      setTimeout(nextSequence(),2000);
      i=0; //making this zero for further comparisions
    }*
    
## Continued development
Through further projects I would continue to enhance my frontend developement skills.


## Author

- Linkedin : [https://www.linkedin.com/in/9abhinav/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/9abhinav/)
- Twitter : [https://twitter.com/Abhinav43358626](https://twitter.com/Abhinav43358626)



## Acknowledgments
- Web Developement Bootcamp by Angela Yu

